



DPf-g - Livius



















Livius.org
Articles on ancient history









  


DPf-g

Achaemenid Royal Inscriptions: collection of Old Persian cuneiform texts from the sixth, fifth, and fourth centuries BCE, left by the Achaemenid kings on their official monuments.
Southern terrace inscriptions

[The following texts can be found on the southern terrace wall of Persepolis, next to the main inscription DPd and DPe, in which king Darius the Great described the building of Persepolis and the size of his empire. Similar themes are found in the following inscriptions, which were written in Elamite and Babylonian.]
DPf, Elamite terrace inscription

I am Darius, the great king, the king of kings,
the king of all nations, the king of this earth,
the son of Hystaspes, the Achaemenid.
And king Darius says:
On this terrace, on which the palace has been built,
on a place where no palace had been built before,
by the grace of Ahuramazda, I built a palace.
And Ahuramazda, and the other gods,
wanted that this palace was built. And I built it.
Therefore, it was made strong and excellent,
and exactly as I had ordered it to be.
And king Darius says:
May Ahuramazda, with the other gods, protect me,
and this palace, and what has been built on this terrace.
May there never be someone who thinks bad of it!

DPg, Babylonian terrace inscription

The great Ahuramazda is the greatest of all gods,
who created heaven and earth, who created the nations,
who gave prosperity to the people living down here,
who made Darius king and gave king Darius the kingship
on this wide earth, where he owns numerous nations:
Persia, Media, and other countries,
with other languages, mountains and plains,
from the shore of one sea to the shore of another sea,
from one desert to another desert.
King Darius says:
With the protection of Ahuramazda,
these are the countries that have made this, who have united here:
Persia, Media, and other countries,
with other languages, mountains and plains,
from the shore of one sea to the shore of another sea,
from one desert to another desert,
as I have ordered them.
All that I did, I did with the protection of Ahuramazda.
May Ahuramazda and the other gods protect me,
protect me and what I love!

Literature

Pierre Lecoq, Les inscriptions de la Perse achéménide (1997 Paris)


This page was created in 2004; last modified on 24 September 2020. Home » Sources » Content » Achaemenid Royal Inscriptions » DPf-g 


On this pageDPf, Elamite terrace inscriptionDPg, Babylonian terrace inscriptionLiteratureAuthorAncient author

Donate to support Livius













About Pictures Sources Countries Languages Categories Tags Thanks FAQ Donate Contact Articles Stubs  

All content copyright © 1995–2024 Livius.org. All rights reserved.



