



DSz - Livius



















Livius.org
Articles on ancient history









  


DSz

Achaemenid Royal Inscriptions: collection of Old Persian cuneiform texts from the sixth, fifth, and fourth centuries BCE, left by the Achaemenid kings on their official monuments.DSz, fragments from Susa
[This text is a variant of DSf, written on a slab of grey marble. There are seven small fragments of the Persian text, but the best copy is in Elamite.]

I am Darius, the great king, king of kings, king of all nations, king of this earth, son of Hystaspes, the Achaemenid.
And king Darius says: Ahuramazda, the greatest of the gods, created me, made me king, bestowed upon me this great and beautiful kingdom, and its good horses and its men.
And by the grace of Ahuramazda, my father Hystaspes and Arsames my grandfather - these both were living when Ahuramazda made me king in this earth.
To Ahuramazda thus was the desire: he chose me as his man in all the earth; he made me king in all the earth.
I have sacrificed to Ahuramazda. Ahuramazda bore me aid. What was by me commanded to do, that he made successful for me. What I did, all by the favor of Ahuramazda I did.
This palace which I built at Susa, from afar its ornamentation was brought. Downward the earth was dug, until I reached rock in the earth. When the excavation had been made, then rubble was packed down, some 40 cubits in depth, another part 20 cubits in depth. On that rubble the palace was constructed.
And that the earth was dug downward, and that the rubble was packed down, and that the sun-dried brick was molded, the Babylonian people performed these tasks.
The cedar timber, this was brought from a mountain named Lebanon. The Assyrian people brought it to Babylon; from Babylon the Carians and the Yaunâ brought it to Susa. The yakâ-timber was brought from Gandara and from Carmania.
The gold was brought from Lydia and from Bactria, which here was wrought. The precious stone lapis lazuli and carnelian which was wrought here, this was brought from Sogdia. The turquoise, this was brought from Chorasmia, which was wrought here.
The silver and the ebony were brought from Egypt. The ornamentation with which the wall was adorned, that from Yaunâ was brought. The ivory which was wrought here, was brought from Nubia and from India and from Arachosia.
The stone columns which were here wrought, a village named Abirâdu, in Elam - from there were brought. The stone-cutters who wrought the stone, those were Yaunâ and Lydians.
The goldsmiths who wrought the gold, those were Medes and Egyptians. The men who wrought the wood, those were Lydians and Egyptians. The men who wrought the baked brick, those were Babylonians. The men who adorned the wall, those were Medes and Egyptians.
Darius the King says: At Susa a very excellent work was ordered, a very excellent work was brought to completion. May Ahuramazda protect me, my father Hystaspes, and my country.

Literature

Pierre Lecoq, Les inscriptions de la Perse achéménide (1997 Paris)


This page was created in 2004; last modified on 24 September 2020. Home » Sources » Content » Achaemenid Royal Inscriptions » DSz 


AuthorAncient authorCountryIranCategoryPersiaSubdisciplinesArchaeologyEpigraphyOriental studiesTagInscriptionSee alsoAchaemenids (article)Achaemenid Royal Inscriptions (text)Darius I the Great (article)Susa (article)

Donate to support Livius













About Pictures Sources Countries Languages Categories Tags Thanks FAQ Donate Contact Articles Stubs  

All content copyright © 1995–2024 Livius.org. All rights reserved.



