



XPl - Livius



















Livius.org
Articles on ancient history









  


XPl

Achaemenid Royal Inscriptions: collection of Old Persian cuneiform texts from the sixth, fifth, and fourth centuries BCE, left by the Achaemenid kings on their official monuments.The following text was written by Xerxes on a stone tablet, and is an almost exact copy of a text written by his father, DNb. The most important differences have to do with orthography.
XPl

1. A great god is Ahuramazda, who created this excellent thing which is seen, who created happiness for man, who set wisdom and capability down upon king Xerxes.
2a. King Xerxes says: By the will of Ahuramazda I am of such a sort, I am a friend of the right, of wrong I am not a friend. It is not my wish that the weak should have harm done him by the strong, nor is it my wish that the strong should have harm done him by the weak.
2b. The right, that is my desire. To the man who is a follower of the lie I am no friend. I am not hot-tempered. Whatever befalls me in battle, I hold firmly. I am ruling firmly my own will.
2c. The man who is cooperative, according to his cooperation thus I reward him. Who does harm, him according to the harm I punish. It is not my wish that a man should do harm; nor indeed is it my wish that if he does harm he should not be punished.
2d. What a man says against a man, that does not persuade me, until I hear the sworn statements of both.
2e. What a man does or performs, according to his ability, by that I become satisfied with him, and it is much to my desire, and I am well pleased, and I give much to loyal men.
2f. Of such a sort are my understanding and my judgment: if what has been done by me you see or hear of, both in in the palace and in the expeditionary camp, this is my capability over will and understanding.
2g. This indeed my capability: that my body is strong. As a fighter of battles I am a good fighter of battles. When ever with my judgment in a place I determine whether I behold or do not behold an enemy, both with understanding and with judgment, then I think prior to panic, when I see an enemy as when I do not see one.
2h. I am skilled both in hands and in feet. A horseman, I am a good horseman. A bowman, I am a good bowman, both on foot and on horseback. A spearman, I am a good spearman, both on foot and on horseback.
2i. These skills that Ahuramazda set down upon me, and which I am strong enough to bear, by the will of Ahuramazda, what was done by me, with these skills I did, which Ahuramazda set down upon me.
2j. May Ahuramazda protect me and what was done by me.


This page was created in 2005; last modified on 16 April 2020. Home » Sources » Content » Achaemenid Royal Inscriptions » XPl 


AuthorAncient authorCountryIranCategoryPersiaSubdisciplinesArchaeologyEpigraphyOriental studiesTagInscriptionSee alsoAchaemenids (article)Achaemenid Royal Inscriptions (text)Persepolis (article)Xerxes I (article)

Donate to support Livius













About Pictures Sources Countries Languages Categories Tags Thanks FAQ Donate Contact Articles Stubs  

All content copyright © 1995–2024 Livius.org. All rights reserved.



